---
layout: post
title: "Branding"
date: 2019-03-07 13:33:00 -0400 #TBD
featured-img: /img/post-images/
# categories: [Flatiron School]
tags: []
excerpt: <p>Excerpt</p>
---

This brings me to an important topic: branding. As current students, it is prudent to start thinking about establishing a brand. How do you want to portray yourself, your goals, and your values to prospective employers and the tech industry as a whole? Depict your personal image by blogging, creating a portfolio, and being active on social media channels. Use any platform which you feel would be a good fit for your personal story. And if you haven’t taken these steps already, start **today**! Be sure to intertwine your personal passions with your professional work as this will give a multidimensional view of your professional and personal life.

As I continue through the Flatiron School program, I’m promoting my brand by being active on Twitter, pushing my work to GitHub, updating my website, and keeping current with my Learn.co blog posts. I even took it a step further and styled my Learn.co blog website, and you can too!

Here’s how to edit the CSS in your Learn.co blog so you can keep with your brand:

*Do this only if you feel confident in your CSS and HTML manipulation capabilities.

Hey everyone! One goal I have for this year is to bolster my “brand” a bit more through social media, blogging, and rebuilding my website.

The following is a draft of a blog post that started coming together in my mind this morning—thanks to Sahil’s self-introduction in #welcome—and I was hoping I could get some constructive feedback. I still need to work on the intro paragraph, but this is the meat :cut_of_meat: of the post.

Through my work as a social media marketer, I learned a lot about which posts get a positive reaction—and which posts completely flop. Each social media platform has its own unique flavor and attracts a particular type of user so you’ll need to approach your audience with a slightly different “tone of voice” depending of which platform you’re using.

Today, I’ll share with you a few practices I try to stick to when posting Tweets to Twitter. This post assumes that you already know the basics of Twitter and how to use the platform. If you need a more basic guide, try this link. (Insert link.)

Tweet Composition
You’re at a picnic with friends and family. The food, finally finished cooking, is laid out on a table off to the side, waiting for everyone to make their way through and help themselves to a hearty portion. Like Tweets in the Twitterverse, there are two common patterns I’ve observed in both of these situations. Here are names I invented to explain them:
Blenders: You’re the person that piles it on! Everything on that table looks good so when you pick up that serving spoon, you don’t really care where the food lands, as longs as it’s on your plate. Go ahead, mix those baked beans and potato salad together! It only makes it taste better! “Blenders” are the users who insert hashtags, mentions, and links throughout the content body of their Tweet. If it makes more sense to utilize a Twitter feature such as a hashtag or a mention in the middle of a sentence, then why not?
Separatists: You pick and choose what you’re going to eat. This round you’ll help yourself to a hamburger and two sides because that’s all the room you have on your plate, however, next round is when you’ll get a hotdog and two different sides. Oh, and don’t forget the third course—dessert!! “Separatists” are the users who write the content of their Tweet and insert hashtags, mentions, and links at the end. They have a space for their original thoughts and a footnote to help amplify those thoughts to the community, notify a particular account, or cite a source.
Neither of these types of users is better or more preferred over the other—they just operate differently! Personally, I’m a mix of both. I prefer a “Separatist” style, but often times it makes more sense to use a “Blended” style, like when I’m just over character limit. Speaking of…

Tweets have a 280 character limit with which users can play with and fill to their hearts’ content—and boy they do! You may be thinking, ’280 characters doesn’t sound like a lot…’ It’s more than you think, and Twitter automatically shortens hyperlinks to save on character count. Plus, Twitter gives you the ability to create multiple Tweets, effectively creating a thread for your audience (or Twitter Followers) to read. The tricky part is creating compelling breakpoints so your Followers will want to continue reading your thread!

Use Hashtags!
I can’t tell you how many times I post a Tweet and immediate think, ‘Crap! I forgot to use Hashtags!’ They’re such a useful feature. Hashtags act as search keywords in Twitter algorithms to help get your Tweets in front of more users who are actually interested in the topic you’re Tweeting about. There are several use cases for Hashtags, but my top three are:
When your Tweet covers a specific tool, language, or framework, hashtag that technology to draw attention to it. (Example here.)
When your Tweet talks about a distinct community, career, or group of people. (Example here.)
If you’re attending or promoting a meetup, conference, or other type of event. Many will create their own Hashtags for you to use and it’s a great way to network with others before, during, and after the event. (Example here. Link to interview blog post.)

Now just how many Hashtags should you use in a Tweet? I think 3–5 is the optimal number, but it depends again on your character count. If you have a short Tweet with good content, including several Hashtags can be a good way to flesh it out a bit. If you have a more lengthy Tweet, you may have to be more choosy with which Hashtags you include in the final version.

Mentions — Shout ’em out!
Overall, you’re looking for interaction with your Mentions. You want that account’s Followers to become interested in your Tweet and, therefore, you! Start by targeting accounts and situations in which Mentions are more likely to yield a reply and/or new Followers.
Definitely use this feature for events you attend and the host/sponsors of those events. The host of the event will want as much free press as possible so it’s a good idea to create a Tweet when you purchase your ticket, when you’re at the event (even better if you include pictures), and post event to show off your swag and let everyone know how much fun you had. I like to Mention speakers as well for in-event workshops that I’ve attended.
Target small companies that are active on Twitter
Target companies that frequently interact with their Followers
Target Influencers by asking them thought-provoking questions
Ask for the RT
