---
layout: post
title: "Shit Job"
date: 2021-01-12 18:14:00 -0500
featured-img: /img/post-images/
# categories: [Flatiron School]
tags: []
excerpt: <p>Excerpt</p>
---

The last line of what @Ayu wrote is so crucial. @Marie Antons, I know our situations aren’t the same, but I can’t help but see eerie parallels between yours and an experience I had—the behavior of the bosses especially. Forgive the long post, but it’s really just a small part what I went through. If you want to hear more about it or ask me any questions, feel free to get in touch! :care:

I definitely had a boss that could never be satisfied with what I did. This was my previous full time job at the IT recruiting firm working as the admin/technical coordinator/lead marketer/wearer of all hats. I know I performed above and beyond in that role because that’s how I am: If I’m going to do something, I do it all the way. It’s a strength and a weakness…

I showed initiative in taking on extra duties not specifically assigned to me but needed to be done, and much like you @Marie Antons, he turned around and gave me shit for it! Every criticism was a blow to my self-esteem and I started to hate my job. I was also becoming increasingly depressed. I had to take a long lunch every other week to see a therapist and had no problem staying later on those days to make up the time. When I talked with him about the situation he seemed annoyed that it couldn’t be outside of work hours but also seemed to understand the need since he said his own mother (who lived with him) had struggled with depression in the past.

It just kept getting worse though—mental-health and work—and I’m positive that one was feeding the other. He would seriously call me on my days off with, “Where are you?” forgetting that he approved my time off and not bothering to check his calendar to see that I marked my vacation day on his calendar! No, instead it’s, “Well you need to remind me again a few days beforehand.” And not to mention if he was expecting me to be in and I wasn’t, shouldn’t his first question on the call be, “Is everything okay?” Just one example of his major assholery…

The writing on the wall though was when he asked me to create a binder outlining everything I do, jokingly saying, “You know, in case you get hit by a bus!” (That’s another thing: the boss was quite fond of making jokes at employees’ expenses.) By this time I was so messed up, I could barely get through one day without calling one of my parents and having them talk me down from (or through) a panic attack or just going into my car and crying. But like you @Marie Antons, I soldiered through. My only focus was getting that binder completed and once the clock struck 5:30, I was fucking gone for the day.